So, guys, now next, we will going to discuss pattern matching, so bit by the matching means that
if I give you a random input binary string that is any sequence of zeros and ones, that is we need
to evaluate whether a given input binary is string matches a particular pattern or not.
So for example, let us suppose that the binary strings on the left hand side is the input binary string
that I give you.
So for example, let's say I give you one one zero one.
And the binary string, which is called as base bit pattern, is a pattern of bets against which you
have to match your input binary string and you have to declare the result.
Whether you are binary input, the string matches with the best with part on a string or not.
So here X represents the don't care condition that is don't care bet.
So it simply means that when you try to match your input binary a string with the best bit pattern string
you don't have to consider.
The beds in the basement pattern, which is represented by this don't care symbol, so it means that
in the input by the string, you don't care whether are middle to bits are one zero zero one or whatever
it is.
All right.
All you care is to match these side binary bits against the side, binary bits at the same position
and the base pattern.
All right.
So in this case, it matches similarly looking at the second example, that is no match because this
binary bid doesn't match with this binary bid and the rest three binary bits and that input the string
matches.
All right.
Because these two are don't care, and this one exactly matches with this one.
Similarly, the third input binary is stringing matches with the base, but pattern and now you know
very well why it matches.
Similarly, this binary input the string matches with this base pattern, whereas this do not match
because this binary digit is different from this binary digit at the same position, whereas we do not
care about this one and zero, whether the match or not.
And this binary bit is same as this binary bit, but because of this mismatch, this input binary string
doesn't match with this base pattern.
All right.
Now you must be thinking, what is the use case of this kind of pattern matching?
So there exist many real world use cases.
For example, you want to block all the traffic, which destination IP address is of the following format.
So as long as your traffic contains destination IP address such as 100 or 200 dot any number from one
to 255 dot any number from one to 255.
You'll want to block all that traffic.
All right.
And there is a data structure called Andrae, which is used a bit pattern matching very heavily.
And such a data structure is used to implement access control list and firewalls.
So if you are not aware of your networking enough, you may miss out at this point that what exactly
that means.
But what I want to convey some real world practical use cases were bit pattern matching is extensively
used.
So in the next lecture we do, I will show you the strategy of the steps that how you can implement
pattern matching in which you also have to accommodate these don't care bits and the base and put panel
and keep this technique in your good books because in the interviews you may asks, you may be asked
this question.
You may be asked some questions, which depends on the matching directly or indirectly.